.TH "passenger-status" "8" "2.0" "Phusion Passenger" "Adminstration Commands"
.SH "NAME"
.LP 
passenger\-status \- inspect Phusion Passenger's internal status
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
.LP 
\fBpassenger\-status\fR [\fIpid\fR]
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
.LP 
\fBpassenger\-status\fR looks at the current status of a Phusion Passenger installation. It will locate Phusion Passenger automatically if it is running and will give you a list of instances if there is more than one Phusion Passenger instance running. You can then select the instance by specifying the relevant PID on the command line.
.LP 
The \fIgeneral information\fR section shows the following details:
.TP 
max
The maximum number of application instances that Phusion Passenger will spawn. This equals the value given for \fIPassengerMaxPoolSize\fR in the configuration.
.TP 
count
The number of application instances that are currently alive. This value is always less than or equal to \fImax\fR.
.TP 
active
The number of application instances that are currently processing requests. This value is always less than or equal to \fIcount\fR.
.TP  
inactive
The number of application instances that are currently not processing requests, i.e. are idle. Idle application instances will be shutdown after a while, as can be specified with \fIPassengerPoolIdleTime\fR in the configuration. The value of \fIinactive\fR equals \fIcount\fR \- \fIactive\fR.
.LP 
The \fIapplications\fR section shows each application instance, which directory it belongs to. The \fIsessions\fR field shows how many HTTP client are currently being processed by that application instance.
.SH "OPTIONS"
.LP 
.TP 
\fBpid\fR
The process ID of the Phusion Passenger instance you want to look at
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.LP 
passenger\-memory\-stats(8), ps(1), top(1)
.LP 
User guide at http://www.modrails.com/documentation.html
.SH "AUTHOR"
.LP 
Phusion Passenger is written by Phusion (http://www.phusion.nl)
.LP 
"Phusion" and "Phusion Passenger" are trademarks of Hongli Lai & Ninh Bui.
.LP 
This manual page was written by Neil Wilson <neil@brightbox.co.uk> for the Ubuntu project (but may be used by others). 
